So time to add a new route in the feed.js
file in the routes folder. There
I will add a new get route and that will be a route for a single post.
So the route is get/post and then we need a dynamic parameter, /postID for example because
we'll encode the ID of the post
we want to fetch in the url.
So this is my path,
now we need a fitting controller action,
so let's go to the feed controller and in there, I'll export by get post controller action with request
response
next
and here first of all, let's extract the post ID from the incoming request params.
So there I can get my post ID, post ID here, this property I'm trying to access has to match exactly the
name I assign in my route, so post ID here after the colon. So now I'm extracting, whoops, I'm extracting
that post ID here,
now we have to find a post with that ID in the database.
So let's use our post model and use the find by id method to find a post with this post ID.
We then have a then block or a catch block depending on whether this fails or not. In the catch block,
I'll use that same logic as I used for creating a post,
I check if we have an error status code,
if not I add it and otherwise I just
next my error
and yes you could refactor into a single function which you then always use.
So here I have this error handling code, in the then block here,
I will get my post and first of all I'll check if this is undefined, so if this is not a true-ish value.
If it is, I know that no post was found and then I'll actually throw a new error, so I'll create a new error
object, could not find
post, I'll set the status code to 404 because that is a not found error
and now I'll throw the error.
This can be confusing because I'm inside of then and you learned that you should use next in there
but if you throw an error inside of a then block, the next catch block will be reached
and that error will be passed as an error to the catch block.
So all I do with throwing is I end up in this function and there I do indeed
next the error,
so I just always use that function,
that's all I'm doing,
I still throw an error if I can't find the post.
If I do find it, I will return a response with a status code of 200 which shows that it was a success
or I do return some json data with some message,
you don't have to set the message by the way, this is purely optional of course, where I say post fetched
and of course my post like this, so I'm returning the post I'm fetching here
as a property post in that object.
So now we have that controller action in place,
now if I go back to my routes I can assign that controller to that route here,
so feed controller get post is the action I want to use and this will not work however because in my
frontend, I fetch the wrong post, so I fetch some dummy data because in my feed controller get post,
I'm not using the database,
I'm instead just returning dummy data.
Now since we are using a database now, since we have added a database, we should of course fetch data
from there as well.
So for that, let me use post find to find all posts and then I have an error or a success case, if I have
an error, I'll use that same logic I use down there to add a status code if it does not exist and then
next the error,
if I succeed I get some posts here however. And now I want to return these posts, so I will send a response
with a status code of 200 where I send some json data and that json data will be an object where
again I will add a message which you don't have to, fetched posts successfully
and most importantly I'll add my posts of course and the posts I add here are the posts I fetched with
posts find,
so these posts.
Now we can get rid of that response down there with our dummy response, re-format this
and now we have this logic in place to fetch the actual posts we have in the database.
If we now save that and
we go back to the frontend and reload, it should load that post.
Does that work?
Now of course we will now want to be able to click on view and see that single post for which we already
added the route.
We just need to adjust our frontend code,
so the react code to load that single post and you do that in the source pages feed single post
folder in the singlepost.js file, in there
you have componentDidMount which executes when this page loads essentially where we extract the post
ID from the url in the frontend and now we just need to target the right url here which is of course
http localhost 8080
/feed
/post/ and then that post ID.
With that we have a get request that should get us our post.
If you now save that and you click on view, you should load your post here,
however the image is not displayed.
The reason for that is that we're looking for the wrong url or that we're not using the image
at all to be precise.
In the frontend, in the same componentDidMount function you just worked in,
in this set state block here, you should add an image key and it has to be named image because that is
a key I'm looking for in that frontend application in the other code which I prepared
and there you want to also define that url to your server, so localhost8080/ and then use res
data.
post,
accessing the response data, there the post property which we do use to store our post in, in get post we
have that post property here which holds our post.
So this is what I am accessing now in the frontend and there, image
url, that is the key name, how it is stored in the database,
add a comma thereafter and save that. And now this page should automatically reload and you should see
that duck. Of course
we didn't upload that,
I prepared it but at least you see it.
Now you can go back to the feed and see your posts here,
we'll get off that error message later too by the way.
So with that, we got this in place,
let's now work on image upload next.